The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Yale Literary Magazine (Vol.
LXXXVIII, No. 1), by (Students of Yale)

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Yale Literary Magazine (Vol. LXXXVIII, No. 1)

Author: (Students of Yale)

Release Date: May 8, 2022 [eBook #68019]

Language: English

Produced by: hekula03 and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images
             made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE YALE LITERARY MAGAZINE
(VOL. LXXXVIII, NO. 1) ***






                      Vol. LXXXVIII          No. 1

                                   The
                         Yale Literary Magazine

                            Conducted by the
                      Students of Yale University.

                             [Illustration]

               “Dum mens grata manet, nomen laudesque YALENSES
               Cantabunt SOBOLES, unanimique PATRES.”

                             October, 1922.

                  New Haven: Published by the Editors.
      Printed at the Van Dyck Press, 121-123 Olive St., New Haven.

                        Price: Thirty-five Cents.

     _Entered as second-class matter at the New Haven Post Office._

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YALE LITERARY MAGAZINE

has the following amount of trade at a 10% discount with these places:

    CHASE—Men’s Furnishings          $30.00
    GAMER—Tailors                     32.00
    KNOX-RAY—Silverware              $16.00
    PACH—Photographers                24.00
    PALLMAN—Kodaks                    32.00
    ROGER SHERMAN—Photographers       63.00
    YALE CO-OP.                       63.00
    YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS—Books      125.00
    KIRBY—Jewelers                    63.00

If you want any of this drop a card to the Business Manager, Yale
Station, and a trade slip will be returned on the same day.

       *       *       *       *       *

ESTABLISHED 1818

[Illustration: _Brooks Brothers_, CLOTHING, Gentlemen’s Furnishing Goods.]

MADISON AVENUE COR. FORTY-FOURTH STREET NEW YORK

_Telephone Murray Hill 8800_

Clothing Ready made or to Measure for Autumn

    Evening Clothes, Cutaways, Sack Suits
    Sporting Clothes and Medium-weight Overcoats
    English and Domestic Hats & Furnishings
    Boots and Shoes for Dress, Street and Outdoor Sport
    Trunks, Bags & Leather Goods

_Send for “New Directory of Brooks Brothers’ Building”_

BOSTON TREMONT COR. BOYLSTON

NEWPORT 220 BELLEVUE AVENUE

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YALE CO-OP.

_A Story of Progress_

At the close of the fiscal year, July, 1921, the total membership was
1187.

For the same period ending July, 1922, the membership was 1696.

On October 5th, 1922, or one week after the opening of college the
membership was 1752, and men are still joining.

Why stay out when a membership will save you manifold times the cost of
the fee.




THE YALE LITERARY MAGAZINE




Contents

OCTOBER, 1922


    Leader                       MAXWELL E. FOSTER    1

    Truth                        MAXWELL E. FOSTER    6

    Poem                      RUSSELL W. DAVENPORT    8

    About It and About          K. A. CAMPBELL, JR.  11

    The Meditations of a Non-Thinker       L. HYDE   12

    Selima                           MYLES WHITING   16

    Portfolio:

        Beauty              HERBERT W. HARTMAN, JR.  23

        Fear of God          ROBERT CRUISE MCMANUS   23

        Ballade                 LAIRD GOLDSBOROUGH   27

    Notabilia                                        30

    Book Reviews                                     32

    Editor’s Table                                   38




                       The Yale Literary Magazine

             VOL. LXXXVIII       OCTOBER, 1922        NO. 1

_EDITORS_

    MAXWELL EVARTS FOSTER
    RUSSELL WHEELER DAVENPORT
    ROBERT CHAPMAN BATES
    WINFIELD SHIRAS
    FRANCIS OTTO MATTHIESSEN

_BUSINESS MANAGERS_

    CHARLES EVANDER SCHLEY
    HORACE JEREMIAH VOORHIS




_Leader_


Every generation is a foible. It is born of whim, and educated
on fantasy. In adulthood it is naturally a freak. This younger
generation in this year of our Lord 1922 is no exception. We were
born of respectability, educated on pedantry. In adulthood we are
revolutionaries. Could anything be more natural, more un-Victorian?

We were born secretly. God knows how such things happened in that age.
Perhaps the Stork brought us, nicely done up in—well—baby-clothes. We
were brought up on platitudes. Most of them were dressed up as Christian.
We hid our meanings in pretty words, and our sense in a blush. The word
sex was unheard of. We didn’t talk much about anything dirty. We never
swore. We said our prayers. With goodness we were replete; it made our
lives hideous. Ultimately it was our virtue that drove us to sin. We
were too good for this world. Forced to live in it by the tyranny of our
parents—we adjusted ourselves, and became bad.

As soon as lies become platitudes they are doomed. The next passer-by
will see through their disguise and expose them. You can fool yourself
with your own lie; but if your neighbors catch the habit from you, and
begin fooling themselves with the same lie, in no time that lie becomes a
platitude. The Victorians fooled themselves into thinking that anything
you could forget didn’t exist any more. So were we born into a Virgin
world. Our beloved ancestry had forgotten there was any sin; for us then
there would not be any. We were their realized dream.

But unfortunately these little cherubim, these little seraphim grew up
into adolescence, learnt things about sex by groping in dark corners,
learnt shocking social problems by looking up words in Dictionaries;
learnt in so doing to disbelieve every word the Victorians uttered. They
had put their faith in that sort of royalty once too often. Genuinely
they became skeptics. Because they had been taught by liars they could
not afford to believe anything—without testing its verity. They are
generous in their estimate of the society into which they are born.
Instead of saying, “We are born into a world of liars,” they restrain
themselves, consider the question rationally and say, “No, only into a
world of fools.” And out of these Fools’ Paradise the younger generation
has toddled. To them it was a hell.

Their first independent action was to set up Truth as their God. They had
had enough of lies. Truth was their panacea. Ignorance was the abiding
sin of mortality. Their battle was for the Tree of Knowledge of Good
and Evil, not for the beautiful garden of Eden—where nakedness did not
prevail upon innocence and blushing was unknown.

Part of this knowledge surely was scientific. The health of the body
was all important: Biology, Hygiene, sex education. For these they
cried out. They talked eagerly of germ-plasm and genetics; defiantly of
birth-control, the double-standard.

An equality between man and woman had suddenly been decreed politically;
philanthropists were already talking about it morally; the younger
generation carrying the movement one step further is experimenting with
it intellectually. What they think, they say. Does it matter who is
there? Bah! Victorian prudery. There are no secrets now between the sexes.

But part of this knowledge of good and evil was common sense—when once
the Puritan and Victorian nonsense had been destroyed. It is only to
a sex-maniac that the shortening of skirts can possibly do any harm.
What, cries the younger generation, is the difference between showing
one’s legs, and one’s arms; bobbing one’s hair is the same, or smoking,
or drinking, or swearing. If they aren’t good for the physique—well
and good, they are bad; but if they are only bad because our Puritan or
Victorian ancestry say so—or because Moses fell down the mountain with
some tombstones under his arm—what the hell?—they aren’t bad at all.

So the gentlemen and ladies of the past lift their monocles and their
lorgnettes to watch these semi-nude girls, these godless men. “Dear,
dear,” they say. “Gracious me. That’s not a nice young man.”

What really has happened, say the younger generation, is that America for
some time has been living up to ideals which they have never expressed,
and have expressed, in lieu of these, ideals which they have never lived
down to. Silly little superficial rules, and some hideous inhibitions
grew up out of these expressed ideals. Otherwise they have been like
corpses rotting before the very eyes of those who created them. They were
never alive at all, say the younger generation. So it considers itself
a generation of building, not of destroying. With frankness a dominant
characteristic it must express the futility of the old expressed, as well
as the strength of the old unexpressed ideals. But it lays the emphasis
on the old unexpressed. For instance, it is not proud that it has torn
down the absurd anthropomorphic God of the literature of the Past, but
it is proud, that, having gotten rid of that miasma, it has proceeded to
the conclusion that God is but the vision of the potentiality of mankind
realized. That with Thomas Hardy it can go forward

                  “with dependence placed
    On the human heart’s resource alone,
    In brotherhood bonded close, and graced
    With loving kindness fully blown,
    And visioned help unsought, unknown.”

It is not proud of having torn the veil off the carefully draped
Victorian womanhood, but having done so it is proud of the constructive
results, that no longer having ignorance, it can see the beauty and
purity in the nakedness of the sex. It has torn down the ugly lies that
covered the world with a respectable and morne garland of fig-leaves, but
out of the ruins of this demolition it is creating a naked sanity, of
which it is reasonably proud.

Thirty years ago “Jude the Obscure” was called “Jude the Obscene”. To-day
Jude is considered a masterpiece, dealing in an intensely honest way with
God and the divine right of the marriage service. Marriage has become
a less eternal and a more kindly institution. Divorcees are considered
less heinous people than before. For better or for worse is no longer
a very powerful condemnation. In the Victorian era the sexual became
an obsession because it was over-emphasized by being left unmentioned.
In reaction, for a moment, under the Freudian influence it became an
obsession from the exactly opposite reason. With the younger generation
it is taking its place like hunger and thirst in the category of normal
desires. The relations between girl and boy are more open, more real than
in the past. There is no longer the hideous restraint before marriage,
causing unhappy lives. It is an easier matter to know whom one is to
marry among the younger generation. More and more they are being honest
with one another. More and more they are coming to consider themselves
rational, kind-hearted people.

I am not justified in defending or attacking the younger generation. I
am doing my duty only in attempting to express the ideals we live by,
the ideals they teach me. Too long has the ridiculous idea been current
that they have no ideals. I have set myself to define them. Because they
are different from the past, they are not non-existent. We are not, as a
generation, more dishonest, more dishonorable than our predecessors. Yet
we have no ideals? That is out of the mouths of fools only.

No, the Victorians thought that not knowing, or pretending not to
know, about things unpleasant was the way to destroy them—by a slow
process of forgetting. The younger generation thinks that knowing, and
everyone knowing thoroughly about things unpleasant, will eventually
arouse the race to do something about them; to clean energetically the
Augean stables. You can see there is a fundamental difference in each
generation’s idea of Humanity. The Victorians thought that knowledge of
sin tainted the virtuous flower of innocence by rousing thoughts and
passions for evil, which could only be killed by long disusage. Mankind
fundamentally, said the Victorians to themselves, has a bad streak. We
must carefully avoid mentioning things that would start that streak
going. If man is not naturally bad, he naturally has some bad in him. We
must starve the devil out of him. The younger generation denies this.
Man is naturally good; anyway, fundamentally so. Evil is an outgrowth of
our own civilization, and social scheme. Most, if not all, criminals are
insane. Society is to blame for insanity. We must study the causes of the
insanities; must publish them broadcast. People must know. If they know,
they will improve. We must educate ourselves up to knowing what is good,
what is bad. We must know the worst to do the best.

Consciously, the Victorians were living by the theories of church dogma,
believing in original sin; unconsciously, the younger generation is
living by the theories of the romantic spirit, believing in natural
good. They are idealists beyond the common run of mankind; and they are
ruthless in the following of their ideals.

                                                       MAXWELL E. FOSTER.




_Truth_


    The Truth that lingers in the heart’s secret places,
    The Truth that gleams of a sudden on Grail-faces,
    The Truth that has run so many torch-lit races,
    Shone suddenly on me,
    And henceforth was to be
    Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, soul of my soul, unto that
        last far dawn which is eternity.

    Our souls were worn like a gaunt dungeon-keep
    Washed by the sea; we sowed not, nor did reap;
    Our Gods were on a journey or asleep;—
    When like a surging fire
    A spirit from earth’s ages did suspire,
    And each soul’s tower put forth leaves and blossomed,
    Like a young tree, and in our souls again there was desire.

    The Spring lay luxuriantly the earth over,
    White roses broke like foam, and the hot clover
    Seemed heavy with spent passion like a lover
    Languorous, till the night
    And the swift breezes white
    Came like a cooling bell and rain, and our eyes grew brighter
    With the new gleam of that celestial light.

    Suddenly there was Romance laughing again,
    And poetry in the strange ancient ways of men,
    We were as ones on peaks in Darien,
    And Love with a new glory
    Opened in song and story,
    Like a flower in a wan waste by the sea,
    And we with our wide eyes looked forward from our star-touched
        promontory.

    The hands that moulded dust out of the dust,
    Scorching the sky with the iron that turns to rust,
    Fashioning brazen Gods to feed their lust,
    These with their feet of clay,
    In the slow alchemy of a timeless day,
    Caught like the hunter of the east new beauty
    And were like figures of the dawn and spray.

    Time has not memory enough for these.
    De Gustibus through shadowy autumn trees,
    Drinking life fully to its twisted lees,
    Nor Time, nor drear regret
    Holds enough memory ever to forget,
    These that are metaphors of immortality,
    Enduring beyond the finality of any long and last sunset.

    The Truth that lingers in the heart’s secret places,
    For this is there an hour glass that effaces,
    Or waves to wash away to sunless spaces
    Truth that is more than Time,
    More than the mere infernal and sublime,
    Truth that is strong as Death, and light as Life,
    And passionate as the last great poet’s last rhyme?

                                                       MAXWELL E. FOSTER.




_Poem_

“_The sane man is nowhere at all when he enters into rivalry with the
madman._”


    Goddess, the rocks are crumbling into sand;
    The moonlight trembles hesitant, as though
    Winter with all his winds and hoary snow
    Were gathering. Goddess, thy hand,
    Which has created shore and rock and ocean
    Within my heart, seems cold;
    I fear lest thou art growing old
    With me—the shattered wreck of my devotion.

    Goddess, there is no love in heaven or earth
    Without thee, and the stars grow dim with age
    When thine eyes are averted, and the rage
    Of winter winds turns luxury to dearth.
    What will it profit if we love no more
    (For I know thou hast loved in thine own way)?
    What will it profit, if for yesterday
    We substitute to-morrow, with its store
    Of sorrow?

    What is a dream for goddess?—not to be
    Immortal once is to be dead forever!
    And shall our eyes go blind and our lips never
    Meet? What is eternity,
    If not that moment of a wild embrace,
    When two souls recognize
    Their first bewildered contact, and two eyes
    Drink the white radiance of a lover’s face?

    Oh, ere the evening lights go gathering like fire
    Across the western portals—ere the sun
    Proclaims that life and life’s short tasks are done—
    Be thou the mistress of my pure desire,
    Be thou the goddess of my heart!
    A man cannot forget a woman’s eyes,
    If he has kissed them (as I have thine own
    In dreams). Love is an art
    Which men do not forget, when they have known
    The way a woman takes toward paradise.

    What weary fools we are! Dust is the same,
    Whether alive, or whether dead and rotten;
    And love is love, remembered or forgotten;
    And life is life, although it be a name.
    Let sorrow come, with many tears; or shame
    Alight upon my brow; or age deny
    What fiery youth would fain assert or die;
    Let even death wash all my dreams away
    Like sand—still I am I,
    To-morrow and to-day, and yesterday.

    Therefore I am immortal; and thy face
    Which I have called mine own, must live, must be
    Immortal with the very heart of me.
    On whatsoever shore, or in what place,
    Whether among the gods, or on the earth,
    Wherever man finds truth, or woman grace,
    Or Sorrow tears, or Laughter tears of mirth;
    Wherever love is, goddess, I shall be;
    Wherever I am, thou—the heart of me!

    Ah, we are weary fools—
    We men who talk of love and sorrow,
    And build philosophy upon old schools,
    And yearn for paradise to-morrow.
    We are insane! Creation dimly flows
    About us, yet like children do we play
    With our uncomprehended toys;
    And no one knows
    Wherefore in love these weary fools rejoice,
    And grasp at stars in their uncertain way.

    Yet I would rather be a fool, and love,
    Than drink of wisdom, and forget the stars;
    I’d rather tear life from Time’s calendars
    Than lose thy face, which I am dreaming of.
    Thus have I given all to be thy slave,
    And now I ask that thou remember this:
    ’Tis better to be mortal in a kiss,
    Than to be called immortal in a grave.

                                                    RUSSELL W. DAVENPORT.




_About It and About_


    What made you speak so, Youth, just now before
    These elders, men much nearer to the thing
    You touch on?
                  Ah, but no. They claim it so
    Yet I deny, for Graybeards grudge to have
    Youth whisper, “Death” ... because they feel it close?
    And Youth’s poor boldness makes it still more close?
    Youth always speaks on death by proper right;
    He has but left it when he enters life
    While Graybeard’s years have dulled the sense that knew
    Prenatal death, and now its imminence
    Stifles his speech.... While Youth, Youth only dares!
      So I ... hearing such bootless thoughts on death,
    Oblivion, rest, eternal pain, reward....
    Somehow they think death lasts, and seek to lie
    Disposed at ease through aeons, or perhaps
    Send on their proper sandal-size ahead
    To heaven’s commissary. Thus Graybeards.
    And yet, Youth also misconstrues its sort,
    Makes it a vale deep-shadowed, where within
    Ghosts glide ’neath cloistering cypress trees and sup
    Of honey cakes in tombs wisteria-hung:
    Cloaked lovers stroll through hazel groves and come
    To Lethe’s bank ... or in another mood,
    Visioning death as ugly, conjures up
    A creatured sprite bent on a tarnished scythe.

    But death, and such my death will be, is naught
    To stop a soul’s drive nor to even check
    Its impetus. Death is transition, well,
    Transition’s but a word ... or say it thus,
    It simply lies, a gap between two rails
    The drive wheel rushes over unaware.

                                                      K. A. CAMPBELL, JR.




_The Meditations of a Non-Thinker_


Look at your nose. It is smooth and round, and red and shiny. Possibly
’tis flat, obtuse, snub, Roman, or Jew. Or in case you happen to think
of some other qualification, it is that. So with your eyes—if only you
will apply suitable adjectives. And also with your chin, mouth, hair,
ears, jowls, or whatever. The reason I suggest this, is in order to add
the insinuation that, if you regard any of these members in a mirror for
some length of time, their aspect changes. For instance—you, my kind
sir of the snub nose, affirm that your nose did not appear beautiful
at first? But you will as well admit that its grossness lessened in
accordance with the time spent in contemplating it. You got to know it
just a little better than you knew it before. Or you who wear the slight
scraggly beard—no, not you, madam—, will you kindly step forward to the
glass and observe how your impression of that fringe changeth from the
disgust of a reformed highwayman to the pride of a father? If we but had
the time, we should spend a delightful afternoon, dear reader, watching
such profitable changes in expression. Human nature is fascinating, is it
not? But verily all of this—for I shall leave aside even the proposition
of how such an outward change affects the spiritual grace—is merely to
remark that by taking thought on any part of your person, no matter how
small, you become acquainted correspondingly with such a part.

This is indeed great. For the action pleases the gazer supremely with
his personality. Yet I hasten to assure you, my dear reader, that such a
phenomenon is quite natural—because after all, we are all of us pretty
much fools, and generally when a fool becomes better acquainted with
himself, he becomes more endeared to himself. As to the question of the
right or wrong of this human attribute, I make no advances, for it is
aside from my position as recorder. But from what I have heard wise men
say, I should judge it to be a lamentable weakness, especially lamentable
since the whole evil appears to issue from a person’s having thought too
much. As a child I was taught to respect thought. And actually I once
believed this to be a worthy hypothesis. But now, as I linger on the
verge of a dreary grave, my old head is fearsomely shaken with doubt. Ah
yes, to think that—but I had better not think!

When we think, we do not observe the golden mean. We rush in where
angels fear to tread. We are not humble, as Christians. We are exalted,
as fools—and as such we love ourselves. So when we are in the act of
thinking, we will not leave off with any sane or wholesome solution. We
believe such a conclusion not good enough for us. We call it barren.
We must needs explore further. After finding a cliff at the edge of
a rational plane of thought, we urge on and grope into the outer
darkness. For the little time that faith supports we continue safely—and
blindly—enough, and then—fall down on the rocks, where we proceed lame
and disorderly—or like Peter, sink absolutely into an offended sea—and
are not saved.

You must allow that when you work yourself into such a state, the effect
on your feelings is far from pleasant, far from elegant even. I should
imagine that one in the grip of mental excesses is not unlike the
habitual user of drugs—the morphinomaniac, opium-eater, or alcoholic. The
mood is surely delirious, grotesquely fanciful, spirit-ridden. Possibly
you believe it is pitiful to see a strong and normal man slowly gathered
in by some subtle influence to become a slave grovelling bestially before
a false and gilded—but an all-compelling—idol. Aye! this is pitiful.
But the pity of it is not the greatest part. Here are you, possessed of
abilities, ambitions, loving friends, philanthropy of the highest kind,
delighted with this world, and enchanted with the prospect of the next.
You hope everything and you fear nothing. By some insidious trick of
fate—a fate that preys upon an insignificant weakness of yours—you feel
yourself subdued slightly by the nod of some dim gigantic animal. But
you are not afraid. For your interests are so worthily turned elsewhere
that you know the Thing to have little power compared to your own—and
you do not care. Oh, therein lives the fearful irony! You may indulge
in your morphine, your opium, or your thinking largely to aid your
powers and your works. The undermining influence is not felt—until too
late. Yes, too late.... The degraded wretch moaning and whimpering, and
shivering all over spasmodically as he tries to get up on his feet,
and his rotted nerves will not respond—can you imagine the inner state
of such a fellow? Do you not conceive that one day he may have been as
fine—or a far finer—person than you? Imagine, then, the turbulence in
his heart! He dreams back to old days, perceiving the former integrity
of his character, the power of his mind and body—and compares all with
the present. Maybe he fashions images of what to-day he might have
been—beautiful glowing things, full of the light of heaven and of
loveliness! He starts from his vile gutter, repelled by horror, and is
about to rise magnificently—when a fit of the passion seizes him, and you
watch him grovel in the nauseous mire. Happy beast he is—now. But the
torture of his mind will return.

       *       *       *       *       *

The agony which thinking induces by such means as I have outlined above
leads me to consider for a trice its alternative, because it is joyous
and fruitful. Can you imagine a green and yellow countryside, with a
little white farmhouse amidst a cluster of dark oaks? Willows are near a
cove in the stream below, which ripples its way coolly through the hot
day. Do you hear the dry voice of a locust, or a cricket? Perhaps the
bird in that isolated pine tree will be singing soon. Breathe deeply, for
the sun is low over the hill and a colder, fairer wind blows from the
dark woodland. You sense its fragrance, feel a thrill, and are deeply
delighted with the whole atmosphere. But stay, I hear a slow cowbell and
the barking of a collie.... The colors of the sunset are delicate and
marvelously blended.—And winding down the path comes a small boy, with
pails to fill at the brook for his mother. So it goes on. However clumsy
the little picture, I have tried to indicate slightly the pleasure met
with when you _feel_. These emotions of yours are sacred because they are
unfathomable. And they are more beautiful than anything else you will
ever know. As for the fruitfulness of imagination, I must let you judge
more for yourself: I will only say that, when people are wearied out, the
beauty of nature has ever been found more of a balm to their spirits than
the futility of overheated thought. Thought and emotion are living in
eternal conflict within you. As one fills your life you have less room
for the other. Any choosing....

The psychologist, that enigmatic rabbit born recently amid a litter of
new ideas, maintains thought to be the only respect in which we differ
from animals. Now in the light of this last word I had better not have
used the term “rabbit”; but, however.... I should like to suggest (though
I am not sure whether you will call me a squirrel or a guinea-pig) that
we differ still more from animals in our power of imagination. You
certainly have seen cartoons entitled “Wonder what a lobster _thinks_
about,” but it is always you who do the wondering and not the lobster
(no inference that you are one, sir). And you never see “_Think_ what a
jellyfish _wonders_ about”! Furthermore, if the psychologist is entirely
right, you who have followed so assiduously this essay—which is largely
devoid of thought—are at least for the time being largely an animal. Are
you?

                                                                 L. HYDE.




_Selima_


There was a mystery about Captain Knox’s wife. Of course, everyone in
Gull Harbor knew there had been a Mrs. Knox, but according to the best
accounts no one had ever seen her. There were a few facts, however, upon
which one could rely. Some thirty or forty years before, the captain,
returning after a long voyage to the East, had announced himself a
widower of recent bereavement. The existence of the captain’s spouse in
Gull Harbor had begun, therefore, simultaneously with the knowledge of
her decease.

A short time after the captain’s return, a neat gravestone was erected
on the Knox farm, in the old burial lot, in which had already been laid
to rest the bodies of the captain’s parents, two brothers, and an uncle.
Upon the stone, by the captain’s order, was carved in plain lettering,
“In memory of Selima, my beloved wife.”

The captain himself would often refer to her. “She was a pretty cretur,
she was.” Beyond this, however, discussion of her was not tolerated in
his presence.

By the time I came to know Gull Harbor, the captain’s seafaring career
was over. The people of the village had long since recovered from the
first excitement caused by the mystery of the captain and his wife, and
conversation had drifted back into familiar channels of interest as to
why Mel Hibbard’s sister had given up her flock of Plymouth Rocks, or
speculations as to the color Mrs. Lovell, wife of the minister of the
Adventist Church, would choose for her new front room carpet.

I had always felt a prejudice for the Maine coast and from the moment
the Portland boat rounded the big rocky cove, I knew I should like
Gull Harbor. There was a restful peace about the place peculiar to the
seaboard of New England. The smell of low tide and drying codfish hung
about the wharf. Almost immediately one felt at home.

I had not been two weeks in the town before I knew all that Gull Harbor
had to tell about their distinguished captain. Didn’t I know Captain
’Thiel Knox, the man who commanded the first seven-masted schooner to
sail the sea? Why, he had been to “Chiny” half a dozen times, and the
Lord knows how many he has crossed the ocean. As a further mark of
distinction he was the proud possessor of two long-haired cats which he
had brought with him from Persia.

One day I happened to ask my landlady, Mrs. Simmons, an old resident and
a noted gossip, if the captain was a widower, and then I learned of the
mystery. “For it’s my opinion,” she added, after telling me the story,
“that she was a Chiny woman, or mebbe a princess from Persy, though
nobody’ll ever know. The captain he would never say a word; quiet’s a
mouse on the subject. You oughter see him, Mr. Fitch. He’s real nice,
and a great hand for company; all kinds, it don’t matter to him,” she
finished in a tone which meant to include even the summer people.

A “fortnit” later (one can see how easily I slipped into the vernacular
of the place), I was out sailing in a borrowed dory. It was a clear
August morning; the sky, a healthy blue and cloudless; the tall spruce
trees, interspersed here and there by a monumental pine, guarded the
water’s edge.

By the time I had rounded the long point that lay between the harbor and
the back bay beyond, a stiff breeze had sprung up. The churning blue
stretched oceanward for miles, blotched by myriads of foamy white caps.
The little dory rocked and twisted in the choppy waves. The sail, which
was home-made, proved an easy victim of the wind, and I soon found to my
dismay that I was drifting helplessly down the bay toward a stretch of
shore that I had not yet visited. The boat moved rapidly. The trees along
the shore were soon followed by a broad green field, which stretched
up from a tiny harbor almost surrounded by a protecting arm of the sea
toward which I was being driven. Gradually the water became shallower,
and the wind reluctantly let me slip from its grasp. I was able to look
about me. It was a very beautiful harbor.

Suddenly I was conscious of an old man in a dory, rowing towards me. He
might have been Father Neptune risen from the depths of the ocean for
all I knew. Without a word he pulled my dilapidated boat ashore. Safely
landed, I thanked him. He was an old man with a long white beard. He had
on a tarpaulin and looked like a sailor.

“Ay-es,” he said pleasantly, when he had moored the two boats to the
wharf (he gave me no opportunity to assist him). “I thought you was
a landlubber, the moment I set eyes on you. Ye can’t tack without a
center-board,” he added with a smile, the first he had given me. I
blushed feebly at my hopeless mistake.

“I thought,” I began weakly, but he didn’t wait for me to finish.

“Won’t you come into the house for a bit?” he asked kindly. “You’re
wet through, ain’t ye?” And he led the way to the little low shingled
structure, fronted by a long porch upon which sat a large Persian cat,
the handsomest I had ever seen.

“Thar, thar, Daisy bird, you’ve had enough pettin’ for one day,” as he
brushed her gently aside, adding, as he noticed my admiration, “Got
another, better lookin’ of the two, in the kitching. Won’t ye come in?”

“You’re not Captain Knox, are you?” I asked.

“Right you be! Salathiel Knox, captain, retired you call it, don’t ye?”
and he smiled again.

While my clothes were drying, we sat around the fire and talked, the
captain still in his tarpaulin, while I languished in a richly figured
rug which he had produced from a locked cupboard in the kitchen. “Bought
it in Singapore twenty-four years ago,” he added by way of dismissal of
my compunction at wearing so valuable a possession. The captain smoked
mildly while I told him who I was, making few comments, but when I tried
to lead the conversation around to his own life he proved a poor subject
for questioning. As Mrs. Simmons said to me afterwards, “The captain can
talk when he’s a mind to, but land sakes, when he ain’t, it’s no use.”

The captain did remark, as I was leaving, that although he lived alone
he wasn’t a bachelor; his wife, he said, was dead. “She was a pretty
creatur, she was,” he added, half regretfully, as he laid down his pipe.

On my way home, my path led not far from the burial lot. I found the
stone without difficulty and read the inscription.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following summer, soon after we arrived, I paid my second visit to
the Knox farm. I found the captain sitting on his porch, smoking. He
didn’t remember me at first; but suddenly he burst out with, “Wall, I
swan! You’re the young man that was tryin’ to tack in a dory without
a center-board. I remember you, o’ course. Pretty good stuff, eh,” he
added, “to tackle such a wind when you knew next to nothin’ o’ the sea.
You’d make a good one, I’ll warrant.”

After that I often went to see him. He became quite loquacious at times
and recounted some of his adventures. Always I expected he would run up
against the mystery, but he never did. Few women were to be found in his
stories.

One day I was surprised to see the captain at my door, seated in a new
motor car. He had come to take me for a drive. I looked the machine over
carefully.

“How does she go?” I asked.

“She sets all right,” he replied, cheerfully, “but she’s a bit wide in
the stern.”

As we drove off together, he seemed in the best of spirits, although he
admitted he was a “little nervous navigatin’ the new craft.”

On the way back, the captain became confidential. His story this time was
concerned chiefly with a long sickness he had had in the Far East, and
his romantic experience with a Malay girl. “She was a ripper, she was,”
he added by way of comment.

“What was her name?” I inquired, with suppressed excitement, but he was
intent upon turning a corner and did not answer. The next moment we were
at the door of my house. He waved me good-bye as he disappeared around a
bend in the road.

“Another opportunity lost,” I thought, as I walked up the path.

       *       *       *       *       *

“It’s the Malay girl, Selima, I’ll be bound. That’s the mystery, Mr.
Fitch. Didn’t he tell you she was a great beauty, all done up in rings
and jewels?”

“Yes,” I answered absently.

This conversation took place about a week after my drive with the
captain, while Mrs. Simmons was removing the breakfast dishes. I was
reading the paper in the next room and did not like to be interrupted.

“I never heard him tell that story,” she continued, raising her voice
above the clatter of the dishes. “He has taken you into his confidence,
Mr. Fitch.”

“Then I fear I have more woefully betrayed it,” I replied without looking
up.

Later I took a walk to the post office. The thought of the mystery,
although I would have hesitated to acknowledge it even to myself, was
making me positively uncomfortable.

“Was she really the Malay girl, after all?” I pictured the captain, young
and handsome, walking up to the altar of a Buddhist temple with a Malay
princess, dazzling with rings and jewels, leaning on his arm, her pale
skin—no, the Malays were brown. I cursed my superior knowledge. Perhaps
their princesses were not so dark. But my vision had faded; I was gazing
at the floor of the Gull Harbor post office.

I took the road back which led by the captain’s. There was no sign of
anyone as I passed. I wandered up by the burial lot. I wondered if Malay
princesses were ever named Selima. On the way home I passed the captain.
He waved to me pleasantly, as he rattled by.

“I will go to see him to-night,” I said to myself. It was after nine when
I reached his house. The captain was still up. He was sitting in front
of the kitchen fire, a long-haired cat on either side. He seemed glad to
see me. We sat and smoked. The logs crackled cheerfully. They reminded me
somehow of my host. An hour flew by; conversation was gradually relaxing
into silent contemplation. Suddenly I burst forth:

“Captain,” I said, desperately, “you remember the Malay woman you told me
of the other day. Was her name Selima?”

For a moment I was afraid I had offended him. All of a sudden he began to
laugh. Little by little his merriment increased, until his whole powerful
frame was shaking. He trembled so that his glasses bobbed up and down on
his nose like a cork. His chair creaked. Even his beard looked merry.

“Selima! Selima!” and he went off into another gale. Then, seeing my
doubtful expression, he tried to pull himself together. “Selima! Selima!
She was a pretty creetur’, she was,” and he laughed again. I was forced
to join with him; his humor was catching.

“I know what’s a-worrying you,” he said. “It’s the mystery. There
never was a boarder within twelve miles of this town whom they haven’t
filled up with the story of my mysterious weddin’. They’re half curious
themselves, though the Lord knows they’d oughter have more sense.
Selima!” He laughed, the tears filling his eyes as he began again.
“Selima! There never was any sech person! To think I have fooled this
town for fifty years! It’s too much. I laugh about it nights.” Again
catching my strained face, “Still curious?” he inquired with a twinkle.

“I’ll tell ye, but you mustn’t spoil my joke. D’ye understand? I guess I
can trust ye,” he added confidentially, and settling himself in his chair
he began.

“It’s not a long story,” he said, glancing at his watch. “About forty
years ago, or mebbe more, when I was perhaps half as old as I am now, I
lived here alone, when I warn’t on the water, which warn’t very much.
It was close on to September, only a day or two or mebbe three before I
was to sail from ‘Porchmouth’. She was a five-master, a beauty ef there
ever was a handsome vessel.” The captain paused as if to recall her more
vividly. “Gullnair was her name, brand new that year. Wall, it was a day
or two before I was to sail, as I was tellin’ ye. I was out here in the
pasture right over yonder by the old spring”—he pointed with a sailor’s
thumb—“I had been gatherin’ berries and after a bit I lay down under a
tree. I had been lobsterin’ all mornin’ and was tired. When I woke up I
heard two women talkin’. They’re both dead now, but in their day they wuz
the gol-durndest busybodies that ever I heard tell on. They was berryin’
and talkin’—about me, would you believe it? Speculatin’ as to why a nice
lookin’ man (I hadn’t sech a bad complexion in those days,” added the
captain reflectively as he rubbed his hand over his rough face)—“they was
a wonderin’ why I didn’t get married. Was it because I had a hidden life?
Did the girls object to my swearin’? Was I—the Lord preserve us, what
didn’t they say? They came to the conclusion that I didn’t marry because
no one would have me. I could have strangled them both at that. I was hot
headed in those days.” All the fun had faded from the captain’s face.

“After they went away,” he continued, “I began to think it over. At first
I cal’lated I had better get married right away. There were a dozen of
’em hereabouts that very minute who would have taken me with a whoop. I
had always tried to steer clear of the women heretofore. Second thoughts,
thinks I, why not let the matter go driftin’ for awhile, anyway? So I
did. But all the time that I was at sea it bothered me. On the home’ard
voyage we struck a bad storm and the Gullnair went to the bottom after
a brave fight, sir, after a brave fight! Most of the crew was drownded.
I was saved by a miracle. Never mind about that now! Wall, sir, after I
was picked up—she was a freighter bound for New York, as luck would have
it—there come to me a big idea.

“When I got home I let them know I was a widower, married while I was
away. Of course they understood she had been drownded on the ship. I
wore a black band on my arm for a time. Seein’ as there as warn’t no
suspicions in the wind, ‘I’ll make a full job of it,’ I says to myself.
‘I’ll set up a stone in the burial lot to her memory’. And that’s what I
did. Wall, they come to write the inscription; I told them the words, but
when they asked me for the name, I said kind o’ flustered like, ‘Selima’.
It was the first one that popped into my head. That’s all.” The captain
smiled, turning his gaze into the fire.

“Then you weren’t ever in love?” I said, with the faintest inflection in
my voice.

The captain blew out a great puff of smoke, looked at me over the top of
his glasses, and smiled.

                                                           MYLES WHITING.




_Portfolio_


_Beauty_

                           I.

    Beauty! thy name were counted less than dust
      That warriors’ tombs with sullen grace enfold,
    Save that thou strip man’s arrant love of lust
      And cloak his tarnished soul with sudden gold.

                           II.

    Beauty! thy price has been a nation’s spoil,—
      A wizard’s epitaph, a child’s grim plea;
    And yet a peasant bought thee with his toil,
      A poet lived with thee in penury.

                                                  HERBERT W. HARTMAN, JR.


_Fear of God_

“I’ve never told anyone how I happened to become a priest because,
for the first few years after ordination I didn’t like to recall the
circumstances surrounding it, and afterwards, when they had lost most
of their sting, the whole thing was so deeply buried in the past that I
never resurrected it. But now, since I’m reaching that point where the
events of my life appear to me more as interesting stories than anything
else, I may as well tell it to you from that point of view.

“To begin with, I had, at twenty, a pretty definite philosophy. I thought
of life and all its functions, as created by the divine hand of God, to
be essentially perfect. Man was created, according to the teaching of
the Church, in God’s image and likeness. The very highest good, to me,
was to live in an accord as close as possible to the universal laws of
nature. Man’s natural state is good, and when he violates this state he
undergoes a physical reaction, called shame, over which he has no control
whatsoever. I had this underlying belief, which was clarified more or
less by reading Walt Whitman and Carlyle, though I added some ideas of my
own which I found in neither of these. But I can’t swear that they aren’t
there. I drew no such sharp lines as are generally drawn between physical
and spiritual love, but visualized, or rather, believed in, an ideal
love in which both are combined, and which, by this combination raise
each other to far higher levels, both collectively and individually. I
rejected a purely abstract affection of the spirit as weakness, since
it does accept and is out of tune with nature. That was Carlyle. And
there was the only point of the whole matter that I have since come to
question, though I have not actually put it aside. I wonder if I could
still hold to it had I married. But if I reject this, the whole thing
breaks down, so I must cling to it, though it does waver. I had always
been a Catholic, and as far as I could see there was no conflict between
my doctrine and that of the Church. In addition, though I realized that
this was a personal viewpoint and couldn’t be brought to bear too closely
on the other, beauty was to me rarely seductive. My moments of desire
were, for the most part, connected with the most intense ugliness.

“At this time I was in love with a girl who was exactly the ideal of
it all. She too was a Catholic and had been educated in a convent for
the greater part of her life. She had not the clarity of feature that
generally characterizes beauty, but possessed something infinitely more
subtle than this. If you’ve ever seen one of those glorious green Irish
hills that look as if they’ve been drawn up fresh from the depths of the
earth by the hand of God, you’ll understand what I mean. She had the same
original force of beauty in the rough mold of her face, which was at the
same time miraculously soft, and free from cold line. Her whole head
was clothed in a sort of cloudiness, like Venus, the mother of Aeneas,
appearing to her son. Her body, and mind, and voice were so harmonious an
expression of good that goodness was with her almost a physical quality.
She had almost never come in contact with wrong, but I know she would
have been the same under any circumstances. It’s easy to understand how I
could hold to my beliefs here; I loved her as much for her body as for
her spirit. She had the same sweet curves and moved with the same music
as a green, young tree bent in the wind.”

He was silent for a moment, and gazed into the thick purple sky,
underneath which the sea beat tirelessly at the rocks which fringed the
bottom of the cliff.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Unfortunately, she didn’t love me, but had the same sort of affection a
girl has for a very good friend of the opposite sex. However, as we were
both quite young (she eighteen) I had plenty of hope that as soon as I
was in a position to ask her to marry me, she would accept.

“Then, in the summer after her graduation from the convent, I learned
that she was determined to return there in the fall as a nun! For two
or three days after this discovery I was in a state of almost continual
mental anguish, that she, a creature so beautifully alive, should
keep the precious gift of herself from the world, and especially from
me,—though curiously enough I looked at it from the general rather than
the individual point of view. I was completely stunned.

“I had never definitely settled in my mind the question of priests and
nuns remaining unmarried. This was through nothing more nor less than
overlooking it, which I cannot understand, since it should have been so
vital to me. But now I came out dead against it. To me it seemed that,
since those who served God and were supposed to be leading the highest
life possible to man were not permitted to marry, the Church put a mark
of disapproval on the married state and the begetting of children. It
was not the actual celibacy of the priests and nuns that concerned me
most, but the disapprobation of what I considered the most spiritual act
of life. I suppose I should have gone to a priest to learn the defense
for it, but I became so prejudiced myself that I imagined that his point
of view or any explanation he might make could be nothing else but
prejudiced.”

He paused again, this time to light his pipe, which he pulled on for many
long seconds before resuming the story, while I held my tongue and gazed
into the vast plain of darkness.

“After a while the pain ceased, and I lapsed into a state almost of
indifference, though the day she was to leave for the convent was pretty
nearly always on my mind. Strangely enough I can’t for the life of me
think what it was now, though I shall never forget what happened on the
day itself.

“I went to her home, which was quite a large estate, to bid her good-bye.
I still had the indifferent feeling, though my mind had that queer,
detached sensation one gets in a fever, and felt, somehow, as if it were
outside of the rest of me. Her brothers and sisters and I sat about
talking constrainedly until the time came for her departure. She was
to go off in the carriage to the station with no one accompanying her
save the coachman. It rolled up to the door and they all crowded out to
see her off. They were a rather grim lot, standing there, though no one
was weeping. As for her, her face had the strangest mixture of joy and
sorrow, which was exactly mirrored in her mother’s. The rest were all
frankly and achingly unhappy. I was relapsing more and more and more into
a dazed condition.

“When she said good-bye to me, I took her hand, quite unconsciously, and
kissed it. It was trembling, which pierced my heart and made me gasp
violently. I have no recollection at all of her actual departure, but
when she was gone I must have been overcome by it, for I heard some one
say, ‘He’s going to faint,’ and then one of her brothers took me inside
and gave me a drink. I had several more, which increased my state of
mental detachment, but did not affect my mental processes in the least.
After a while I went outside the house and wandered about the lawn, until
finally I sat down on a bench bordering a wide patch of grass on which
there were no trees or shrubbery of any kind. I don’t think I noticed it,
but night had practically fallen, and darkness was gradually enveloping
the place. The thought of her trembling hand kept coming back to me,
making the blood in my head throb violently, when suddenly, with a wrench
that shook my whole body, my head cleared absolutely. I realized then,
for the first time, that she was irretrievably gone, and the realization
flung me into a rage. I cursed God in unutterable vileness for taking
her from me, for making of life such a deceiving, rotten thing, and
for setting me down in the midst of it! I am neither a savage, nor a
superstitious idiot, but as I stand here, I wonder I wasn’t struck down
by His almighty hand for the filth and blasphemy I put upon my tongue
that night!

“Then, out on the very center of the lawn before me, appeared a column
of cottony-white smoke which, by indescribable foldings, formed itself
into a woman of the most unearthly and terrible beauty. She was naked,
and each particle of her white skin seemed to be shouting the fact of her
nakedness aloud. The steely outline of her bare flesh cut the stuff of
night away, and flashed out its blinding brilliance.

“She commenced to sing. There is a certain way of striking a harp which
gives it a shuddering noise, and this, magnified beyond measure, is the
nearest thing to a description I can give of the beginning of her song,
which poured out of her lips in a thick flame of sound. It pressed down
on me with the volume of a thousand storms, when suddenly I realized
that she was singing in a man’s voice! Without thought, the conviction
flashed on me that this was undoubtedly the devil, and that all her
beauty was false. With a shriek of awful fear I called on God to protect
me! Immediately the song caught in the throat of the thing, man or beast,
whatever it was, and the body commenced to distort into sheer ugliness
without form. I don’t know how it finally disappeared, for I went into a
raving delirium and swooned.

“The next two months I spent in a sanitarium on the verge of insanity.
All I can remember of this is an occasional flash of miraculous fear,
when I seemed to be vainly fleeing the avenging hand of God. As soon
afterward as I was able, I joined the priesthood, and I don’t mind saying
that it was through an actual, original fear of God and nothing else.”

“What about your philosophy?” I asked.

“I still have that,” he answered. “And it required very little
reconciliation to keep it. The realization of the part of celibacy
in it came to me about a year after I was ordained, as a feeling, or
conviction. Of course the refutation of my argument is that the Church
makes marriage a sacrament. I suppose most men have this explained to
them before they become priests, but I never found it necessary.”

“Is the girl a nun now?” I pursued.

“No,” he said, a faint smile lurking about the corners of his mouth. “She
never took the final vows, but left the convent and married. She has five
very beautiful children, one of whom, the eldest, I’m marrying next week.
In fact, he’s named for me.”

This time the silence was longer and seemed almost a conclusion, until I
broke it with one last question.

“Do you think that was actually the devil who appeared to you, or an
illusion brought on by the state of your mind?”

He answered me very quietly. “The hand of God is seen in strange places.”

                                                   ROBERT CRUISE MCMANUS.


_Ballade_

(Translated from a fifteenth century lyric of Charles d’Orleans)

    Once in the weary wood of dull Distress
    Where Fate condemned my leaden feet to stray
    It chanced that Venus, now my comfortress,
    Besought to know where I did take my way.
    Then I replied, “My fortune’s gone astray,
    And I long exiled ’mid this wood’s repose,
    It happens I am one of whom men say,
    ‘A man astray, uncertain where he goes.’”

    Then she, all smiles and godlike graciousness,
    “Tell me, my friend, the reason, oh I pray.
    Why is it you are lost in black Distress?
    I may have power to set you on your way.
    Long have I sought love’s pleasures to display
    Unto your heart—I knew not of your woes.
    Nor can I bear to see you thus to-day,
    A man astray, uncertain where he goes.”

    And I, “Alas! Most sovereign Princess!
    You know my state: shall I repeat it? Nay!
    ’Twas Death—who doth all men alike oppress—
    ’Twas Death that stole my darling love away.
    She who so guided me upon my way—
    My only love, more lovely than the rose—
    That while she lived no one of me might say,
    ‘A man astray, uncertain where he goes.’”

    For I am blind—I catch no spark of day—
    Nor but with tapping staff can find my way.
    So tapping here and there the wanderer goes.
    It is indeed a pity they must say,
    “A man astray, uncertain where he goes.”

                                                      LAIRD GOLDSBOROUGH.




_Notabilia_


The most important action of the University in its relation to the
student body is the Sunday chapel regulation, that eleven o’clock
non-sectarian Christian service and sermon is compulsory for all Yale
College undergraduates and members of the common Freshman year. In this
change of hour lies a change of issue. Before, the ten-minute ten o’clock
service was a bit of tolerated hypocrisy to keep undergraduates in New
Haven over the weekend. This compulsory attendance at Divine Worship is
an intolerable religious offence.

Religion is a matter of individual opinion; compulsion is opposed to
individuality. Compulsory religion then by our own inherited conception
of that word is an impossibility. There can be no religion for an
intelligent person in Woolsey Hall. To those who are not Christians it is
intellectual persecution.

We are amused at the news that there was some discussion as to whether
there should be plants or members of the faculty on the platform during
the service. Plants seem to us the better choice; being more inanimate,
they are less hypocritical.

Really it is astonishing how Yale can be as much of an institution of
learning as it is, and still practice such stupidity in administration.

       *       *       *       *       *

We should like to bring to our readers’ attention the following terse
facts about Commons. Commons has a compulsory patronage amounting to
approximately 900 men. It can count on a few hundred more men who are
working their way through. After its seating capacity has thus been
filled once, it need not (and does not) accommodate any more for that
meal; it can therefore calculate with perfect accuracy, so that no food
need be wasted. It requires cash _in advance_, or bills sent home; it has
therefore no credit to carry on its books. At the present writing, it
will allow no one to sign out: meals taken elsewhere are wasted money
for its customers. Its overhead is reduced to a minimum—far more so than
that of any other eating house in college. And, added to this, it has the
faculty to protect it.

Yet, what is happening? The charges for food are $9.00 per week, without
rebate for cash. The service is slow whenever the hall is crowded. The
food, while sometimes good, is by no means always so, and if maintained
at the present standard would be intolerable as a year’s diet.

Considering the fact that, for nine hundred of its customers, it requires
no table runners, thereby saving approximately $800 per week ($25,000 per
year); there it is only $1.00 per week cheaper than some eating houses,
and 50 cents cheaper than most; that its food is not as good as any of
the others—considering these things, we suggest that an investigation be
made. We are anxious to be fair in the matter and not judge too harshly a
project which is as yet young. But the college seems to be of the opinion
that considerable improvement must be shown by the Yale Dining Hall if it
is to continue its somewhat shaky career.

       *       *       *       *       *

Taking the same paternal stand as they have taken in the case of Commons,
the faculty has decreed that the Liberal Club must ask “permission”
before inviting speakers to address their meetings. Just what the Liberal
Club will do about this, no one as yet knows. Certainly it conflicts with
the very principles and ideals of that club, and represents a trend, on
the part of the Yale faculty, to which the club is especially opposed.




_Book Reviews_


_Tutor’s Lane._ By WILMARTH LEWIS. (Knopf.)

Imagine Yale College without appendages, and New Haven without slums
or business section, and life just as it is now and you will have the
setting for Mr. Lewis’ ’17 first novel, “Tutor’s Lane”.

You are given as hero a young English instructor, a graduate from about
the same class as Mr. Lewis, probably with a Chi Delta Theta charm, and
a heroine not greatly sophisticated, of good family, mildly fond of
“doing good” to “the people.” These two fondly follow a Quixotic scheme
of uplift (which he doesn’t even like, and about which she’s a fool), and
come out of it ashamed but at one in their shame. The inevitable marriage
ensues. The plot is the weakness of the book. It is a thin-spun web, and
disappointing.

But the non-plot characters, and the phrasing of the Syllabus, and the
satire scattered through the pages are features over which no one can
pass without delight. Mrs. Norris talks, the reader is amused; Mr. Lewis
talks, the reader is wholly captivated. It is not the genial gay humor
of Punch; it is something with a sharper touch than that, more witty,
more satirical. It is only when Mr. Lewis becomes sympathetic with his
character or with his reader that he fails. He is superb when he is
laughing at both simultaneously.

If he ever gets hold of a plot, the result will be a fine novel. He has
the power of restraint and objectivity which most moderns lack. He is
refreshing in the midst of so much that is conspicuously heavy and bent
with the weight of the world. His product is not marred by continual
reference to the travail and labor its creation caused. He seems to have
enjoyed writing the book, and not to have written it in order to save
the world, or the destinies of nations. To amuse himself and his friends
seems to be his only purpose in writing, which is probably why “Tutor’s
Lane” will also amuse so many other people.

                                                                 M. E. F.


_Young Peoples Pride._ By STEPHEN VINCENT BENÉT. (Henry Holt & Co.)

There are probably very few men now at Yale who are destined to look
back, after an equally short span of years, upon a more enviable literary
record than that already possessed by Stephen Vincent Benét. And yet,
we had to read a good deal of “Young Peoples Pride” before we began to
enjoy it. Perhaps the reason was that we had expected another “serious
novel” or “character study” somewhat along the lines of Mr. Benét’s “The
Beginning of Wisdom”. The rather affectedly “super smart” illustrations
with which the present book is garnished annoyed us, and the occurrence
of passages like the following caused us to fear that Mr. Benét,
with an eye to the box office, had joined the Fitzgeraldine ranks of
tale-tellers-out-of-school.

    “‘The trouble with Art is that it doesn’t pay a decent living
    wage unless you’re willing to commercialize—’

    ‘The trouble with Art is that it never did, except for a few
    chance lucky people—’

    ‘The trouble with Art is Women.’

    ‘The trouble with Women is Art.’

    ‘The trouble with Art—with women I mean—change signals! What do
    I mean?’”

But there is not much of that sort of “cleverism”. In fact, in so far as
“We Wild Young People” enter, Mr. Benét holds the mirror very sanely and
skillfully up to nature.

However, “Young Peoples Pride” scarcely requires all this analyzing. It
is not an “important novel” anyway—simply a rattling good yarn, and must
be judged as such. For sheer sustained excitement we have seldom read
anything better than the long scene in the apartment of Mrs. Severance
and the gentleman whom Mr. Benét so quaintly calls “Mr. Severance”. It
is a scene that we shall hope to see on Broadway later, when its author
becomes a playwright—if he ever does. Read the book for that, by all
means—and you’ll like a good deal of the rest.

                                                                 L. S. G.


_Books and Characters._ By LYTTON STRACHEY. (Harcourt, Brace & Company,
New York.)

A reference, in the present volume, to Thomas Beddoes as “the last
Elizabethan” suggests, at once, Mr. Lytton Strachey’s preëminent right
to the title of “the last Victorian”—using the word in its best sense,
to denote an individual very far removed indeed from any desire to go
“tobaggoning down Parnassus”. Mr. Strachey’s bland progress through the
realm of letters is, in fact, the very antithesis of that adopted by the
tobaggoning school of modern critics. To analyze the characteristics of
his style is to call up a host of adjectives long all but forgotten amid
the present scramble for pseudo-culture. He is scholarly without being
pedantic, erudite without being obscure. And the queer, musing, almost
anecdotal manner in which he rambles from Johnson’s wit to Madame du
Deffand’s, from Shakespeare’s tragedies to Voltaire’s, is always giving
way to lightning flashes of true critical insight expressed with the
netteté of a Racine.

As might be gathered from the foregoing remarks, “Books and Characters”
is a volume of collected critical essays, which first appeared
individually between the years 1905 and 1919 in various publications,
such as the _Edinburgh Review_. Incidentally, it is a book which should
have an especial and peculiar appeal to the college man. For the books
and characters touched upon are, one or two excepted, the very ones
with which the reading essential to a college course has made him most
familiar. He will thus have freshly in mind the background of literary
acquaintanceships, which the guileless Mr. Strachey apparently supposes
is possessed by everyone, and upon which he proceeds to etch his
portraits with the aid of a wit so delightful and so acutely sharpened as
to be quite irresistible. For it was true wit, in the Victorian sense,
mingled with a quaint, sly humor, which made Strachey’s “Queen Victoria”
the consummate master-portrait that it is, and which reappears in “Books
and Characters”. Perhaps a quotation from the chapter entitled, “The
Lives of the Poets”, may show what we mean:

    “Johnson’s aesthetic judgments are almost invariably subtle, or
    solid, or bold; they have always some good quality to recommend
    them—except one. They are never right. That is an unfortunate
    deficiency; but no one can doubt that Johnson has made up for
    it, and that his wit has saved all. He has managed to be wrong
    so cleverly, that nobody minds. When Gray, for instance, points
    the moral to his poem on Walpole’s cat with a reminder to the
    fair that all that glisters is not gold, Johnson remarks that
    this is ‘of no relation to the purpose; if what glistered had
    been gold, the cat would not have gone into the water; and, if
    she had, would no less have been drowned.’ Could anything be
    more ingenious, or more neatly put, or more obviously true? But
    then, to use Johnson’s own phrase, could anything be of less
    ‘relation to the purpose’?”

Well, we only restrain ourselves with difficulty from seeming to commit
sacrilege upon Johnson by proclaiming the rightness of Mr. Strachey’s
aesthetic judgments, as well as their wit.

The essays dealing with French life and letters, just prior to the
revolution, are equally a mine of interest. They are all brilliant
pieces of writing; from the flickering sidelights thrown upon the
undignified and incredible squabbles of Voltaire and Frederick the
Great, to the half-pitiful, half-comic details concerning the salon of
Madame du Deffande—Madame du Deffande, who was for twenty years, at
once, blind, hopelessly in love with Walpole, and the cultural autocrat
of Paris. Skeptics, all of them—and skeptics essentially Gallic, before
whose unabashed indifference to God, and cynical contempt for man the
Anglo-Saxon mind is apt to recoil, gymnastically unable to assume the
necessary shift in point of view. For instance, there is Madame La
Maréchale de Luxembourg:

    “‘Quel ton! Quel effroyable ton!’ she is said to have exclaimed
    after a shuddering glance at the Bible. ‘Ah, Madame, quel
    dommage que la Sainte Esprit eut aussi peu de gout!’”

At least they seem to have been sincere, these most un-Victorian French.
And they round out Mr. Strachey’s book into something which really must
not be missed.

                                                                 L. S. G.


_This Freedom._ By A. S. M. HUTCHINSON. (Little, Brown & Co.)

A. S. M. Hutchinson’s latest novel, “This Freedom,” is the life story of
an English girl. Brought up in an old-fashioned home where the duty of
the women is but to serve the men, she breaks from conventional ties and
becomes a thoroughly modern creature in thought and action.

Her ideal is man’s position of social independence. This she attains to
the fullest measure in the business world. But trouble comes after she
has experienced love, marriage and the duties of a mother of a family.
After a series of crushing disasters, she discovers that modern teaching
does not tend to make for that home life to which she, in her youth, had
been accustomed, and from whose charm she had never really freed herself.

The book has the same weak point as its predecessor, “If Winter Comes”.
Mr. Hutchinson does not seem to have the courage to write a tragedy.
After he has masterfully created a heap of wreckage, he vainly attempts
restoration in a few concluding paragraphs. It is as impossible for the
reader to conceive of recovery in the case of Rosalie and Harry as it was
to imagine a future happiness for Nona and Marco.

It is to be hoped that we shall soon have a real tragedy from the pen of
this popular author, for then we shall put down the book perhaps sadder
but at least more impressed.

                                                                    M. T.


_Babbitt._ By SINCLAIR LEWIS. (Harcourt, Brace & Co.)

If “Babbitt” is a better book than “Main Street”, as its publishers would
have us believe, then Mr. Lewis’ improvement is to be found in an even
greater application to the details; the minute cataloguing of commonplace
incident. It is infinitely painstaking. But for those of us who believe
that “Main Street” in itself showed an unnecessary virtuosity in that
talent, this is hardly to be rated as an advance.

“Babbitt” is not so much to be considered as better or worse than “Main
Street”, as a companion volume in Mr. Lewis’ series of compendiums of
all that is tawdry, and hypocritical, and typical, in the contemporary
life of the American middle class.

Babbitt is the “average” American business man; a real estate dealer
(“realtor”, as he pridefully insists on being called); a Rotarian,
Booster, member of the Athletic Club, and solid citizen. He has a
squabbling family; a wife whom he tolerates, and three children whom he
loves impatiently—because he cannot understand them. Little attention
is given to a plot; the development is rather in exhaustive study and
analysis. From the time when Babbitt gets up to shave, until the time
when he makes sure (for the second time) that all the doors in the house
are locked, no detail of his life, personal, family, business, or social,
is omitted. And each detail is analyzed. Sometimes it is satirized; and
often the attempted satirization becomes an over-done burlesque.

Like Carol Kennicott, Babbitt is filled with dissatisfaction; and
a realization (more vague than hers, because he cannot understand
it) of the meaningless hypocrisy of his life. But his revolt is not
intellectual, and therefore the pain of frustration in the inevitable
defeat at the end is not so keen.

I do not hold with those critics who condemn Mr. Lewis for presenting
only one side of his picture. I agree that he does present only
one side—but are there not a great many times as many authors who
write only of the so-called “pleasant” side? And are not Mr. Lewis’
characterizations far closer to the actual verities?

I think that they are; and that historians of the future will do well to
turn to such books as “Babbitt” for their data on the “typical” American
citizen of the third decade of the twentieth century.

                                                                 C. G. P.




_Editor’s Table_


As the French say: All generalities are false, even this one.

       *       *       *       *       *

“The Editor’s Table has no raison d’être,” I said.

“Nor any pièce de résistance,” said my friend.

“Nor is it ever a chef d’oeuvre,” I added.

       *       *       *       *       *

But I know now that the French are right.

                                                                    CORY.




_Yale Lit. Advertiser._

       *       *       *       *       *

The Chase National Bank of the City of New York

57 Broadway

    Capital                   $20,000,000
    Surplus and Profits        21,787,000
    Deposits (Sept. 15, 1922) 434,107,000

OFFICERS

    ALBERT H. WIGGIN, President

Vice-Presidents:

    Samuel H. Miller
    Carl J. Schmidlapp
    Gerhard M. Dahl
    Reeve Schley
    Henry Ollesheimer
    Alfred C. Andrews
    Robert I. Barr
    Sherrill Smith

Assistant Vice-Presidents

    Edwin A. Lee
    William E. Purdy
    George H. Saylor
    James L. Miller
    Alfred W. Hudson
    George Hadden
    M. Hadden Howell

Comptroller

    Thomas Ritchie

Cashier

    William P. Holly

       *       *       *       *       *

WINCHESTER

Sportsmen’s Headquarters

91 Church Street, Near Chapel

Sportwear for All Occasions

GUNS

RADIO

GAMES

       *       *       *       *       *

HARRY RAPOPORT

University Tailor

Established 1884

Every Wednesday at Park Avenue Hotel, Park Ave. and 33rd St., New York

1073 CHAPEL STREET

NEW HAVEN, CONN.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Best Stores Everywhere Show

[Illustration: ESTABLISHED 1896

LANGROCK FINE CLOTHES

NEW HAVEN, CONN.]

INCORPORATED ELM STREET AT YALE CAMPUS

English Accessories for men who appreciate quality and value

NEW YORK OFFICE: 220 BROADWAY

       *       *       *       *       *

The Brick Row Book Shop, Inc.

Announces that Subscriptions are being taken for:

The Manaton Edition of the Works of John Galsworthy

Limited to 750 copies to be sold in this country, and printed on
specially water-marked rag paper. Mr. Galsworthy has written sixteen new
prefaces for this edition, and will inscribe the first volume of each set.

The Collected Works of Herman Melville

Limited to 650 copies, of which 300 only are to be sold in the United
States. This edition will appear in twelve volumes, six dollars the
volume.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Individual as You Are

From the bolt of cloth to the finished suit, we tailor your clothes
perfectly to the contour of your form. Every suit and overcoat tailored
to your individual measurements. Only through such service can you
receive such fine quality for so little cost.

E. V. PRICE & CO. Tailoring for Men

We’re now showing an impressive display of new Fall fabrics. Come in
early and make your selection.

$45.00 UP TO $65.00

SHOP OF JENKINS

Haberdashery—Knox Hats—Clothing Specialists

940 Chapel Street, New Haven, Conn.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Nonpareil Laundry Co.

The Oldest Established Laundry to Yale

We darn your socks, sew your buttons on, and make all repairs without
extra charge.

       *       *       *       *       *

PACH BROS.

_College Photographers_

1024 CHAPEL STREET

NEW HAVEN, CONN.

       *       *       *       *       *

NASH

_Nash Leads the World in Motor Car Value_

$1645

_Completely equipped as shown_

[Illustration]

THE NEW Nash Sport Model

Here’s the latest addition to the Nash line—a popularly-priced,
smartly-fashioned sport model with the most complete equipment ever
put on a car. There’s nothing in its field to touch it. See it at your
dealers.

FOURS _and_ SIXES

Reduced Prices Range from $915 to $2190, f.o.b. Factory

THE NASH MOTORS COMPANY

KENOSHA, WISCONSIN

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAS. MEURISSE & CO. 4638 Cottage Grove Ave., Chicago, Ill.

POLO MALLETS, POLO BALLS, POLO SADDLES and POLO EQUIPMENT of every kind

Catalog with book of rules on request

       *       *       *       *       *

CHASE AND COMPANY

_Clothing_

GENTLEMEN’S FURNISHING GOODS

1018-1020 Chapel St., New Haven, Conn.

Complete Outfittings for Every Occasion. For Day or Evening Wear. For
Travel, Motor or Outdoor Sport. Shirts, Neckwear, Hosiery, Hats and Caps.
Rugs, Bags, Leather Goods, Etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tailors to College Men of Good Discrimination

[Illustration: _Gus Alexander_

_DRESS_ TAILOR _SPORTING_]

1123 CHAPEL STREET

NEW HAVEN, CONN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Established 1852

I. KLEINER & SON

TAILORS

1098 Chapel Street

NEW HAVEN, CONN.

Up Stairs

       *       *       *       *       *

The Lit.

is a Yale magazine—leader in literature among undergraduates. A local
effort, it can be but “one of the leaders” in the nation.

We Can

not take many pictures outside of New Haven because we, too, are a local
institution. But like the Lit., we lead here at home—in Yale and New
Haven.

Roger Sherman Studio

“Just across from Vanderbilt”

       *       *       *       *       *

Reliance Typewriter Co., Inc.

74-76 CENTER STREET

Phone Colony 1569

AGENTS

L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriters. Rebuilt Typewriters of All Makes.
Special Rental Rates to Students.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUGH M. BEIRNE

227 Elm Street

_Men’s Furnishings_

“Next to the Gym.”

       *       *       *       *       *

FRAPPIER’S BARBER SHOP

100 per cent. CLEAN

Manicure

Shoe Shine

211 ELM STREET

Next to Gym.

       *       *       *       *       *

VAN DYCK & CO. Incorporated

PRINTERS

121-123 Olive Street

New Haven, Conn.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Standard of Quality which we maintain in our Merchandise insures
you against purchasing articles of wearing apparel of inferior quality
and workmanship. We demand the best quality in all our hats, sweaters,
hosiery, neckwear, shirts and underwear.

May we show you this standard of quality.

John F. Fitzgerald

Hotel Taft Bldg. NEW HAVEN, CONN.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNIVERSITY SMOKE SHOP

(Opposite Osborn Hall)

“The Rendezvous of Yale Men”

Pipes, Smokers’ Articles, Tobaccos, Soda Fountain, Sandwiches.

Ticker Service

       *       *       *       *       *

MOTOR MART GARAGE

OLIVE AND WOOSTER STS.

Oils and Gasoline

Turn-auto Repair Service

       *       *       *       *       *

COMPLIMENTS OF A FRIEND

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

NEW HAVEN CONNECTICUT

522 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY

YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS

_Announces the Publication of the following New Verse_—

_Lyra Levis_

By Edward Bliss Reed

In this attractive little volume Mr. Reed describes in humorous verse the
faculty, the undergraduates, and the life in an American university town.
The book will appeal to anyone who knows college communities.

_Price_ $1.00

Hidden Waters

By Bernard Raymund

    “These songs be carven from
    Dear days we knew,
    Green days, and windy days and some
    Wild with the flames that used to come
    When love was new.”

_In the Yale Series of Younger Poets_

_Price_ $1.25

Attitudes

By Paul Tanaquil

    “Here are my songs,
    Such as I make them;
    Each one belongs
    Unto you: take them.”

_In the Yale Series of Younger Poets_

_Price_ $1.25

In the Sky Garden

By Stephen Moylan Bird

Selected and arranged with a Biographical Sketch by Charles Wharton Stork.

    “Like a cool vapor falling
    The voice of Death is calling:
    ‘In my dim land is Peace,
    By Lethe-languid fountains
    In my mist-shrouded mountains
    All cares and clamors cease.’”

The collected verse of the young West Point cadet who in a fit of
despondency probably took his own life.

_Price_ $1.50

Yankee Notions

By George S. Bryan

These diverting poems are by none other than the G. S. B. who—by his
initials—is known to thousands through his association with F. P. A.’s
column in the New York Tribune.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE YALE LITERARY MAGAZINE
(VOL. LXXXVIII, NO. 1) ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
